README.md, before:

# Overview
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/istreamdata/orientgo.svg?branch=v2)](https://travis-ci.org/istreamdata/orientgo)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2)

**OrientGo** is a Go client for the [OrientDB](http://orientdb.com/orientdb/) database.

![OrientGo Logo](https://raw.github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/v2/logo/orientgo.png)

# Status

OrientDB versions supported: **2.0.15 - 2.1.5**

**Not supported versions:**

- 2.1.0 (bug in OrientDB, see [#28](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/issues/28))
- 2.1.3 (broken protocol, see [#39](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/issues/39))

Driver is under active development. API in `orientgo` is potentially unstable (though getting more stable now).

Early adopters are welcome to try it out and report any problems found.

### Ogonori

Original ogonori API is deprecated. Still, it's source code have been frozen in [v1.0](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/tree/v1.0) branch.
To use it, simply replace `github.com/quux00/ogonori` imports with `gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v1`.

### Supported features:
- Mostly any SQL [queries](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#SQLQuery), [commands](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#SQLCommand) and [batch requests](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#ScriptCommand).
- Server-side scripts (via [ScriptCommand](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#ScriptCommand) or [functions](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#Function)).
- Command results conversion to custom types via [mapstructure](http://github.com/mitchellh/mapstructure).
- Direct CRUD operations on `Document` or `BytesRecord` objects.
- Management of databases and record clusters.
- Can be used for the golang `database/sql` API, with some cautions (see below).
- Only supports OrientDB 2.x series.

### Not supported yet:
- OrientDB 1.x.
- Servers with cluster configuration (not tested).
- Fetch plans are temporary disabled due to internal changes.
- Transactions in Go. Transactions in JS can be used instead.
- Live queries.
- Command results streaming ([#26](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/issues/26)).
- OrientDB CUSTOM type.
- ORM-like API. See Issue [#6](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/issues/6).

#### Caveat on using OrientGo as a database/sql API driver

**WARNING: database/sql API is disabled for now.**

The golang `database/sql` API has some constraints that can be make it painful to work with OrientDB. For example:

* When you insert a record, the Go `database/sql` API only allows one to return a single int64 identifier for the record, but OrientDB uses as a compound int16:int64 RID, so getting the RID of records you just inserted requires another round trip to the database to query the RID.

Also, since OrientDB transactions are not supported, the `Tx` portion of the `database/sql` API is not yet implemented.

# Development

You are welcome to initiate pull request and suggest a more user-friendly API. We will try to review them ASAP.

## How to run functional tests:

1) Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com)

2) Pull OrientDB image: `docker pull dennwc/orientdb:2.1`

3) `go test -v ./...`

## Examples

Dial example - dial_example_test.go

## LICENSE

The MIT License

Commit message:

Mentioned that the project is not maintained

README.md, after:

# Overview
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/istreamdata/orientgo.svg?branch=v2)](https://travis-ci.org/istreamdata/orientgo)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2)

**OrientGo** is a Go client for the [OrientDB](http://orientdb.com/orientdb/) database.

![OrientGo Logo](https://raw.github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/v2/logo/orientgo.png)

# Status

OrientDB versions supported: **2.0.15 - 2.1.5**

**Not supported versions:**

- 2.1.0 (bug in OrientDB, see [#28](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/issues/28))
- 2.1.3 (broken protocol, see [#39](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/issues/39))

Driver is no longer maintained and seeking for a new owner.

### Ogonori

Original ogonori API is deprecated. Still, it's source code have been frozen in [v1.0](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/tree/v1.0) branch.
To use it, simply replace `github.com/quux00/ogonori` imports with `gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v1`.

### Supported features:
- Mostly any SQL [queries](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#SQLQuery), [commands](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#SQLCommand) and [batch requests](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#ScriptCommand).
- Server-side scripts (via [ScriptCommand](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#ScriptCommand) or [functions](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/istreamdata/orientgo.v2#Function)).
- Command results conversion to custom types via [mapstructure](http://github.com/mitchellh/mapstructure).
- Direct CRUD operations on `Document` or `BytesRecord` objects.
- Management of databases and record clusters.
- Can be used for the golang `database/sql` API, with some cautions (see below).
- Only supports OrientDB 2.x series.

### Not supported yet:
- OrientDB 1.x.
- Servers with cluster configuration (not tested).
- Fetch plans are temporary disabled due to internal changes.
- Transactions in Go. Transactions in JS can be used instead.
- Live queries.
- Command results streaming ([#26](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/issues/26)).
- OrientDB CUSTOM type.
- ORM-like API. See Issue [#6](https://github.com/istreamdata/orientgo/issues/6).

#### Caveat on using OrientGo as a database/sql API driver

**WARNING: database/sql API is disabled for now.**

The golang `database/sql` API has some constraints that can be make it painful to work with OrientDB. For example:

* When you insert a record, the Go `database/sql` API only allows one to return a single int64 identifier for the record, but OrientDB uses as a compound int16:int64 RID, so getting the RID of records you just inserted requires another round trip to the database to query the RID.

Also, since OrientDB transactions are not supported, the `Tx` portion of the `database/sql` API is not yet implemented.

# Development

You are welcome to initiate pull request and suggest a more user-friendly API. We will try to review them ASAP.

## How to run functional tests:

1) Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com)

2) Pull OrientDB image: `docker pull dennwc/orientdb:2.1`

3) `go test -v ./...`

## Examples

Dial example - dial_example_test.go

## LICENSE

The MIT License
