doc/orientdb-tutorial.md, before:

# asdf





# Cheat Sheet of Common Use Cases

## Creation and Connection

### How to create a test/dummy database

    create database plocal:../databases/cars admin admin plocal

### Connect to server and list databases

    connect remote:localhost root jiffylube
    list databases


### Connect to database

    connect remote:localhost/cars admin admin
    
### Create a class with properties and put a record in

    create class Person
    create property Person.name string
    insert into Person (name) values('Luke')
    info class Person
    select from Person
    load record #11:0  (or whatever the rid is)
    

----

## Indexes

### See all indexes

    select expand(indexes) from metadata:indexmanager

----

### Users and Permissions

#### Create new user with write privileges

    insert into ouser set name = 'midpeter444', password = 'jiffylube', status = 'ACTIVE', roles = (select from
    ORole where name = 'writer)
    
   
#### Change password of user

    update ouser set password = 'hello' where name = 'midpeter444'

Commit message:

Added some Graph DB tests to the client.go functional test.

doc/orientdb-tutorial.md, after:

# asdf





# Cheat Sheet of Common Use Cases

## Creation and Connection

### How to create a test/dummy database

    create database plocal:../databases/cars admin admin plocal

### Connect to server and list databases

    connect remote:localhost root jiffylube
    list databases


### Connect to database

    connect remote:localhost/cars admin admin
    
### Create a class with properties and put a record in

    create class Person
    create property Person.name string
    insert into Person (name) values('Luke')
    info class Person
    select from Person
    load record #11:0  (or whatever the rid is)
    

### database while connected to the server (not the database)

    drop database <database-url> <user> <password> <storage-type>
    drop database remote:localhost/ogonoriGraphTest root jiffylube persistent


----

## Indexes

### See all indexes

    select expand(indexes) from metadata:indexmanager

----

### Users and Permissions

#### Create new user with write privileges

    insert into ouser set name = 'midpeter444', password = 'jiffylube', status = 'ACTIVE', roles = (select from
    ORole where name = 'writer)
    
   
#### Change password of user

    update ouser set password = 'hello' where name = 'midpeter444'
